[Music]
twelve ways to protect your home while
you're away according to FBI statistics
around 1.5 million burglaries took place
in the US alone in 2017 but is there a
way to protect your home from burglars
if you can't afford an expensive
security system there are simple yet
effective tips that will make your home
your fortress and even discourage
thieves from breaking into your property
before you learn about them don't forget
to hit that subscribe button and ring
the notification bell to join us on the
Brightside
[Music]
12 hide valuable belongings while
strangers are in your home while a
plumber is fixing something under your
sink they have enough time to have a
look around they can turn out to be bad
guys who inform their accomplices since
most burglars aim for cash jewelry and
electronics leaving any of these items
out makes it too easy and appealing for
them to snatch them immediately of
course this doesn't mean that all
plumbers and other workers are burglars
but you should always be careful there
are so many companies on the market
these days offering house maintenance
services and some of those great online
deals could turn out to be a hoax it
never hurts to get acquainted with the
companies reviews before calling an
electrician or plumber you can also get
recommendations from friends and family
11 don't let a thief hear your phone
ringing some thieves get creative and
use a landline phone trick where they
call your home phone and wait for an
answer if no one picks up a phone it
means that nobody's home
if you mute or lower the sound you'll
confuse a potential burglar since they
won't hear any sound 10 install a
reliable lock according to FBI data it
takes burglars between 90 seconds and 12
minutes to break into a home 34 percent
of cases in the u.s. saw entry game
through the front door the locks most at
risk of lock snapping or cylinder ones
the most complicated locks are those
that can be opened with lever keys
it's a good idea to lock your door with
a pin tumbler and lever key since this
combination is the most reliable to
ensure your house has the maximum
protection get a grade 1 or grade 2
heavy-duty deadbolt lock it's called
dead because it doesn't have any springs
in it never label your keys as this
makes it so much easier for burglars to
find and break into your home if you
lose them also thieves know all too well
about your top secret hiding spots or
keys under doormats or among fake rocks
to name a few
instead leave your spare key with a
neighbor or someone else you trust if
you're looking for a fancier solution
install a smart lock that can be
controlled from your smartphone it could
be a supplement to your deadbolt that'll
keep track and inform you of any front
door activity you can email access keys
to close friends and control the door
remotely while you're away 9 protect
your windows another popular way to
enter a property is through first-floor
windows FBI reports show that around 23
percent of burglars in the US choose
this way of entering homes that's why
you should consider installing grills if
you live on the first or second floor
don't forget that you should have an
escape route in case of an emergency so
buy grills that can be unlocked
if grills don't sound like a desirable
means of protection to you reinforce the
windows themselves use protective film
security screens or shatterproof glass 8
take care of the territory surrounding
your property do you know what burglars
are looking for abandoned homes that no
one will even care about in the event of
a break-in if you have a house don't let
burglars think that no one lives there
take care of the lawn in the summer and
keep the paths clean in winter trim the
shrubbery around the entrance to rob
criminals of a hiding spot by your front
door it will make thieves think twice
before attempting to get in make it easy
for the police to identify your house
put a large reflective number on your
house and mailbox burglars like to get
into dark houses to win some extra
moments to get out again
I'm talking about those few extra
seconds the police will take to find
your house
those seconds will count finally walk
around your neighborhood to see if it
has any graffiti or trash you can
organize a cleanup with your neighbors
or ask the Public Works Department to
help make it a better place not only
will this make the area more beautiful
but it will send an important message to
criminals they'll know that the people
who live in the area care about it and
each other and that neighbors are
unlikely to stay quiet if someone tries
to rob the house next to them 7 use
thieves fears against them
these are scared of being caught a
simple but extremely effective way of
scaring them off is putting out a sign
that says protected property this trick
will make burglars think twice before
breaking in 6 dispose of boxes for
expensive items correctly if you're
throwing away a box from a new TV or
refrigerator you're likely to attract
potential burglars who will want to
steal your new item to avoid trouble
tear the box apart before throwing it
away 5 pretend imagine you are leaving
your home for a while you're already in
the street and you suddenly notice a
strange person they might be waiting for
you to leave so they can break in don't
be shy turn around and wave your hand as
if someone stayed at home for check your
locks if you notice scratches on your
lock it might mean that burglars have
tried to open it before you open the
door and enter your home check your
locks so you can react quickly if
there's an emergency
3 let sunlight it if windows are curtain
for a few days in a row it can indicate
that nobody's home as there aren't that
many people who like to live without
sunlight when you leave your property
make sure you don't completely close
your curtains this will create the
illusion that your home to put plants
with abrasive foliage in front of your
fence and windows to turn an ordinary
fence into a barrier plant something
with abrasive foliage like a dog rose or
Dewberry plant you can also play into
roses right under your windows all these
plants will make
burglars mission really challenging
breaking into your house will not only
be difficult because of locks or
security system but also be physically
painful one don't give out any
information over the phone you should be
careful with unfamiliar service
companies that call and ask questions
about your workplace and ours or about
the people who live with you it's one of
the methods thieves used to find out the
history of our property and the most
suitable time for breaking in according
to research statistics from Jacksonville
State University most burglars choose to
break into homes between 10 a.m. and 3
p.m. when most people are supposed to be
a way of work do you use any tricks
against burglars share your experience
with us in the comments remember give
this video a like share with your
friends and click subscribe to stay on
the bright side of life
[Music]